docs/components/bottom-navigation.md, before:

---
layout: layouts/component.njk
title: Bottom navigation
description: The bottom navigation helps users return to the homepage or move to a hub page.
backlogID: 518
tags:
  - component
---

![](/assets/images/bottom-nav.png)

## When to use

The bottom navigation is visible at the bottom of most pages in the NHS App. The exception is when external pages open in a web browser overlay.

The top navigation remains fixed in position as users scroll.

## When not to use

The bottom navigation is not part of the web browser version of the NHS App. The same links are contained within an NHS.UK header instead. The bottom navigation is also not visible when external content is opened in a browser overlay within the NHS App, for example if a user navigates to the help and support pages hosted on the NHS website.

## How to use

Each hub is represented by a text label and an icon. The text labels match the main heading on the respective hub page.

![](/assets/images/bottom-nav-2.png)

## Accessibility

Bear in mind that the bottom navigation can be easier for users to reach than the top navigation. This lends itself to links that users may need more frequently.

## Research

The ‘Home’ link was previously placed on the top navigation of the NHS App. In usability testing, participants found it easier to use the link when it was placed on the bottom navigation. They also noticed that this placement was more consistent with other popular apps.

We also tested recognition of the hub page icons. The icons were well recognised. The use of text labels was needed to help users differentiate the ‘Services’ and ‘Your health’ icons.

Commit message:

update images and add alt text

docs/components/bottom-navigation.md, after:

---
layout: layouts/component.njk
title: Bottom navigation
description: The bottom navigation helps users return to the homepage or move to a hub page.
backlogID: 518
tags:
  - component
---

![The bottom navigation menu. It contains four icons with text labels: Home, Services, Your health and Messages.](/assets/images/bottom-nav.png)

## When to use

The bottom navigation is visible at the bottom of most pages in the NHS App. The exception is when external pages open in a web browser overlay.

The top navigation remains fixed in position as users scroll.

## When not to use

The bottom navigation is not part of the web browser version of the NHS App. The same links are contained within an NHS.UK header instead. The bottom navigation is also not visible when external content is opened in a browser overlay within the NHS App, for example if a user navigates to the help and support pages hosted on the NHS website.

## How to use

Each hub is represented by a text label and an icon. The text labels match the main heading on the respective hub page.

![Details of the bottom navigation menu. Icons become highlighted when selected. An unread indicator can be placed over icons.](/assets/images/bottom-nav-2.png)

## Accessibility

Bear in mind that the bottom navigation can be easier for users to reach than the top navigation. This lends itself to links that users may need more frequently.

## Research

The ‘Home’ link was previously placed on the top navigation of the NHS App. In usability testing, participants found it easier to use the link when it was placed on the bottom navigation. They also noticed that this placement was more consistent with other popular apps.

We also tested recognition of the hub page icons. The icons were well recognised. The use of text labels was needed to help users differentiate the ‘Services’ and ‘Your health’ icons.
