docs/components/index.md, before:

---
layout: layouts/component.njk
isIndex: true
title: NHS App design components
description: These are components designed specifically for the needs of NHS App users and are not yet in the NHS design system.
---

Check the [NHS design system](https://service-manual.nhs.uk/design-system) to see if the component you need is already being used across the NHS.

If you can't find what you need in the NHS design system or the NHS App design components, you can:

- [check the NHS community backlog](https://github.com/nhsuk/nhsuk-service-manual-community-backlog/projects/1) to see if it is being worked on by other teams across the NHS and add your findings
- [check the NHS App component backlog](https://github.com/orgs/nhsuk/projects/8) to see if it is being worked on by the NHS App and add your findings
- [add a new component to the NHS App component backlog](https://github.com/nhsuk/nhsapp-frontend/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&projects=&template=new_component_or_pattern.md&title=)

## Using code snippets in prototypes

Each component includes coded examples. You will need to install [NHS App frontend](/components/install-nhsapp-frontend-in-your-prototype) to use components with specific NHS App code not yet supported by the NHS Prototype Kit.

Find out how to [set up the prototype kit](https://nhsuk-prototype-kit.azurewebsites.net/docs).

## Get help

The NHS App Design System Team provides support for users of the NHS App design resources. [Contact us](/help-and-feedback/) to ask for help.

Commit message:

Minor suggested content changes to the components landing page.
- Split the intro text beneath the heading into two sentences, to make it slightly easier to digest.

- Added a 'Finding the component you need' H2 above the initial body text. This might help to make clear which scenario the instructions in the body content are relevant to?

docs/components/index.md, after:

---
layout: layouts/component.njk
isIndex: true
title: NHS App design components
description: These are components designed specifically for the needs of NHS App users. They are not yet in the NHS design system.
---

## Finding the component you need 

Check the [NHS design system](https://service-manual.nhs.uk/design-system) to see if the component you need is already being used across the NHS.

If you can't find what you need in the NHS design system or the NHS App design components, you can:

- [check the NHS community backlog](https://github.com/nhsuk/nhsuk-service-manual-community-backlog/projects/1) to see if it is being worked on by other teams across the NHS and add your findings
- [check the NHS App component backlog](https://github.com/orgs/nhsuk/projects/8) to see if it is being worked on by the NHS App and add your findings
- [add a new component to the NHS App component backlog](https://github.com/nhsuk/nhsapp-frontend/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&projects=&template=new_component_or_pattern.md&title=)

## Using code snippets in prototypes

Each component includes coded examples. You will need to install [NHS App frontend](/components/install-nhsapp-frontend-in-your-prototype) to use components with specific NHS App code not yet supported by the NHS Prototype Kit.

Find out how to [set up the prototype kit](https://nhsuk-prototype-kit.azurewebsites.net/docs).

## Get help

The NHS App Design System Team provides support for users of the NHS App design resources. [Contact us](/help-and-feedback/) to ask for help.
