docs/get-started/Figma prototypes.md, before:

---
layout: layouts/get-started.njk
title: Figma prototypes
order: 2
tags:
  - prototyping
---

Create prototypes for user research using the [NHS App prototype](https://design-system.nhsapp.service.nhs.uk/get-started/nhsapp-prototype/). There are lots of [benefits of protoyping in code](https://digital.nhs.uk/blog/design-matters/2025/why-we-are-reinvesting-in-the-nhs-prototype-kit).

However, Figma is also a helpful tool for quickly creating and collaborating on concepts. Using the NHS App Figma library, you can add ready-made NHS App design system components and patterns into your Figma file.

<hr class="nhsuk-section-break nhsuk-section-break--xl nhsuk-section-break--visible app-section-break--width-4">

## How to add the Figma library to your file

1. In your Figma file, select the Figma "F" logo in the top left corner.
2. Select **Libraries**. Another way to reach your libraries is to select the book icon shown in the image.

![A screenshot of the Figma menu with the term 'file' highlighted](/assets/images/figma-library-step-1.png)

3. Select **Your teams**.
4. Find "NHS App Design System" and select **Add to file**.

![A screenshot of the libraries menu in Figma with 'NHS App design system' highlighted](/assets/images/figma-library-step-2.png)

<hr class="nhsuk-section-break nhsuk-section-break--xl nhsuk-section-break--visible app-section-break--width-4">

## How to find and use components and patterns

1. In the **Assets** tab on the left-hand menu, select **NHS App design system**.
2. Find the asset you need and select **Insert instance** to add it into your file.

![A screenshot of the assets menu in Figma with an example of an NHS App component you can add](/assets/images/figma-library-step-3.png)

<hr class="nhsuk-section-break nhsuk-section-break--xl nhsuk-section-break--visible app-section-break--width-4">

## Help improve the Figma library

If you find a gap or think something could be improved, you can help us update the Figma library. (further instructions here)

<hr class="nhsuk-section-break nhsuk-section-break--xl nhsuk-section-break--visible app-section-break--width-4">

Commit message:

- Updated instructions and images - Added 'How to update' section - Added 'How to improve' content

docs/get-started/Figma prototypes.md, after:

---
layout: layouts/get-started.njk
title: Figma prototypes
order: 2
tags:
  - prototyping
---

Create prototypes for user research using the [NHS App prototype](https://design-system.nhsapp.service.nhs.uk/get-started/nhsapp-prototype/). There are lots of [benefits of protoyping in code](https://digital.nhs.uk/blog/design-matters/2025/why-we-are-reinvesting-in-the-nhs-prototype-kit).

However, Figma is also a helpful tool for quickly creating and collaborating on concepts. Using the NHS App Figma library, you can add ready-made NHS App design system components and patterns into your Figma file.

<hr class="nhsuk-section-break nhsuk-section-break--xl nhsuk-section-break--visible app-section-break--width-4">

## How to add the Figma library to your file

1. In your Figma file, select **Assets** in the left-hand menu.
2. Select the book icon to open your libraries.

![A screenshot of the Figma menu with the 'assets' tab and 'libraries' highlighted](/assets/images/figma-library-step-1.png)

3. Select **Your teams**.
4. Find "NHS App design system" and select **Add to file**.

![A screenshot of the libraries menu in Figma with 'NHS App design system' highlighted](/assets/images/figma-library-step-2.png)

<hr class="nhsuk-section-break nhsuk-section-break--xl nhsuk-section-break--visible app-section-break--width-4">

## How to check for updates to the Figma library

1. In your Figma file, select **Assets** in the left-hand menu.
2. Select the book icon to open your libraries.
3. Select **Updates**. This will show you any assets that have been updated in the NHS App Figma library, and how many instances of each asset there are in your file.
4. Select **Update** next to individual assets or select **Update all** to update everything in your file. You may first need to toggle on "Show updates for all pages" if you have multiple pages in your file.

![A screenshot of the libraries menu in Figma with 'updates' selected](/assets/images/figma-library-update.png)

<hr class="nhsuk-section-break nhsuk-section-break--xl nhsuk-section-break--visible app-section-break--width-4">

## How to find and use components and patterns

1. In your Figma file, select **Assets** in the left-hand menu.
2. Select **NHS App design system**.
3. Find the asset you need. In the **Properties** menu you can choose any variations available.
4. Select **Insert instance** to add it into your file.

![A screenshot of the assets menu in Figma with an asset 'insert instance' highlighted](/assets/images/figma-library-insert.png)

<hr class="nhsuk-section-break nhsuk-section-break--xl nhsuk-section-break--visible app-section-break--width-4">

## How to improve the Figma library

Your input helps us keep the Figma library updated. If you want to add or update a component or pattern, [contact the NHS App design system team](http://localhost:8080/community/help-and-feedback/) and we can guide you to update the file directly. 

<hr class="nhsuk-section-break nhsuk-section-break--xl nhsuk-section-break--visible app-section-break--width-4">
