docs/get-started/index.md, before:

---
layout: layouts/get-started.njk
title: Get started
---

The NHS App design system is a collection of building blocks and standards. It brings together agreed-upon components, patterns, guidance and tools, all of which have been created by designers and developers working on the NHS App.

<hr class="nhsuk-section-break nhsuk-section-break--xl nhsuk-section-break--visible app-section-break--width-4">

## How this fits with the wider NHS design system

Your general starting point should still be the wider [NHS design system](https://service-manual.nhs.uk/design-system), which is aimed at all national and local NHS services.

The NHS App design system has been created to complement that main design system, by covering design principles and components that are specific to the app.

<hr class="nhsuk-section-break nhsuk-section-break--xl nhsuk-section-break--visible app-section-break--width-4">

## Learning from others

- **[Component and pattern discussions](https://github.com/nhsuk/nhsapp-frontend/discussions)** - A space for discussing design components and patterns in the NHS App design system, and possible future additions.
- **[NHS App design history](https://nhsdigital.github.io/design-history-nhsapp/)** - A place to record of design and research for the NHS App.

## Prototyping

- **[NHS App Figma library](https://www.figma.com/design/6f2CbcZ7cnpNrtKEcfQp8X/NHS-App-Design-System?node-id=1-2321&t=MVpqU429rpUKsPm3-1)** - Use NHS App design system components in Figma for rapid wireframing and basic prototyping.
- **[NHS App prototype](/get-started/nhsapp-prototype/)** - Rapidly make interactive, accessible and realistic prototypes of NHS App services.

## Production

- **[NHS App frontend](/get-started/nhsapp-frontend/)** - A CSS library for NHS App design system built on top of the NHS.UK frontend.
- **[Vue component library](https://nhsappvuecomponentlibraryv1.nonlive.nhsapp.service.nhs.uk/?path=/docs/readme--docs)** - A Vue Typescript Library for the NHS App design system.

## Tracking progress

- **[Design system team sprint board](https://github.com/orgs/nhsuk/projects/18/views/1)** - A GitHub project board to track progress of NHS App design system work.

<hr class="nhsuk-section-break nhsuk-section-break--xl nhsuk-section-break--visible app-section-break--width-4">

## Being part of the community

If something you need isn’t in either the NHS or NHS App design systems, check for any relevant discussions or guidance on the:

- [NHS community backlog](https://github.com/nhsuk/nhsuk-service-manual-community-backlog)
- [government department pattern libraries](https://github.com/ctdesign/gov-design-systems-list)

Reuse as much as possible and iterate based on user needs.

### Contributing

If you still think there is a gap or think something could be improved, you can share your findings or suggest a change.

Design systems are built on contributions and improvements from the people who use them. Find out more about [how to contribute](/community/).

<hr class="nhsuk-section-break nhsuk-section-break--xl nhsuk-section-break--visible app-section-break--width-4">

Commit message:

add line about contributing back

docs/get-started/index.md, after:

---
layout: layouts/get-started.njk
title: Get started
---

The NHS App design system is a collection of building blocks and standards. It brings together agreed-upon components, patterns, guidance and tools, all of which have been created by designers and developers working on the NHS App.

<hr class="nhsuk-section-break nhsuk-section-break--xl nhsuk-section-break--visible app-section-break--width-4">

## How this fits with the wider NHS design system

Your general starting point should still be the wider [NHS design system](https://service-manual.nhs.uk/design-system), which is aimed at all national and local NHS services.

The NHS App design system has been created to complement that main design system, by covering design principles and components that are specific to the app.

When we find our work could have applications beyond the app, we contribute those findings and ideas back to the wider NHS design system.

<hr class="nhsuk-section-break nhsuk-section-break--xl nhsuk-section-break--visible app-section-break--width-4">

## Learning from others

- **[Component and pattern discussions](https://github.com/nhsuk/nhsapp-frontend/discussions)** - A space for discussing design components and patterns in the NHS App design system, and possible future additions.
- **[NHS App design history](https://nhsdigital.github.io/design-history-nhsapp/)** - A place to record of design and research for the NHS App.

## Prototyping

- **[NHS App Figma library](https://www.figma.com/design/6f2CbcZ7cnpNrtKEcfQp8X/NHS-App-Design-System?node-id=1-2321&t=MVpqU429rpUKsPm3-1)** - Use NHS App design system components in Figma for rapid wireframing and basic prototyping.
- **[NHS App prototype](/get-started/nhsapp-prototype/)** - Rapidly make interactive, accessible and realistic prototypes of NHS App services.

## Production

- **[NHS App frontend](/get-started/nhsapp-frontend/)** - A CSS library for NHS App design system built on top of the NHS.UK frontend.
- **[Vue component library](https://nhsappvuecomponentlibraryv1.nonlive.nhsapp.service.nhs.uk/?path=/docs/readme--docs)** - A Vue Typescript Library for the NHS App design system.

## Tracking progress

- **[Design system team sprint board](https://github.com/orgs/nhsuk/projects/18/views/1)** - A GitHub project board to track progress of NHS App design system work.

<hr class="nhsuk-section-break nhsuk-section-break--xl nhsuk-section-break--visible app-section-break--width-4">

## Being part of the community

If something you need isn’t in either the NHS or NHS App design systems, check for any relevant discussions or guidance on the:

- [NHS community backlog](https://github.com/nhsuk/nhsuk-service-manual-community-backlog)
- [government department pattern libraries](https://github.com/ctdesign/gov-design-systems-list)

Reuse as much as possible and iterate based on user needs.

### Contributing

If you still think there is a gap or think something could be improved, you can share your findings or suggest a change.

Design systems are built on contributions and improvements from the people who use them. Find out more about [how to contribute](/community/).

<hr class="nhsuk-section-break nhsuk-section-break--xl nhsuk-section-break--visible app-section-break--width-4">
