docs/get-started/nhsapp-prototype.md, before:

---
layout: layouts/get-started.njk
title: NHS App prototype
order: 1
tags:
  - prototyping
---

The NHS App prototype builds on the NHS prototype kit, adding custom layouts and components tailored to the NHS App. It enables teams to create interactive prototypes that look like real NHS App pages.

## Download a copy

The simplest way to get a copy is to [download it as a zip](https://github.com/nhsuk/nhsapp-prototype/archive/refs/heads/main.zip).

You can also clone or download a copy from [GitHub](https://github.com/nhsuk/nhsapp-prototype).

You can download a new copy for each project and [store your code on GitHub](/get-started/github-and-heroku).

## Tools and software required

To use the prototype, you need to install some tools and software.

Follow the [NHS prototype kit setup guide](https://prototype-kit.service-manual.nhs.uk/install) to get everything necessary to run the prototype.

Once setup is complete, return here to download the NHS App prototype.

## Learn to use the prototype

Basic knowledge of HTML is required, such as understanding tags and attributes, and how to copy and paste code.

You can learn basic HTML and CSS at [mdn](https://developer.mozilla.org/), [codecademy](https://www.codecademy.com/), or other online tutorials.

There are also helpful [NHS prototype kit guides](https://prototype-kit.service-manual.nhs.uk/how-tos) that will guide you from creating a simple page to building complex user journeys.

We recommend following the [build a basic prototype tutorial](https://prototype-kit.service-manual.nhs.uk/how-tos/build-basic-prototype/index) to familiarise yourself with prototyping.

## Page templates and components

The NHS App prototype includes pre-installed code specific to the app, such as:

- [page templates and layouts](https://nhs-app-redesign-prototype-96ab88b99fdb.herokuapp.com/pages/)
- [components](https://nhs-app-redesign-prototype-96ab88b99fdb.herokuapp.com/components/)

These are available within your copy of the prototype and can be edited or extended to meet the needs of your project.

## Feedback

We welcome feedback and suggestions to help improve the NHS App prototype.

If you have any ideas, feature requests, or issues to report, please submit them by raising an [issue on GitHub](https://github.com/nhsuk/nhsapp-prototype/issues) or contributing directly via a pull request.

## Support

For troubleshooting or support, you can ask the design Slack community at:

- [#prototype-kit](https://nhsdigitalcorporate.enterprise.slack.com/archives/C042J3MTJG2)
- [#nhsapp-design-system](https://nhsdigitalcorporate.enterprise.slack.com/archives/C06GY1LRP19)

Commit message:

update tools and software section

docs/get-started/nhsapp-prototype.md, after:

---
layout: layouts/get-started.njk
title: NHS App prototype
order: 1
tags:
  - prototyping
---

The NHS App prototype builds on the NHS prototype kit, adding custom layouts and components tailored to the NHS App. It enables teams to create interactive prototypes that look like real NHS App pages.

## Download a copy

The simplest way to get a copy is to [download it as a zip](https://github.com/nhsuk/nhsapp-prototype/archive/refs/heads/main.zip).

You can also clone or download a copy from [GitHub](https://github.com/nhsuk/nhsapp-prototype).

You can download a new copy for each project and [store your code on GitHub](/get-started/github-and-heroku).

## Tools and software required

To use the NHS App prototype, you’ll need:

- Node.js version 20 or higher
- a HTML text editor, such as Visual Studio Code (VS Code)

If you're unsure whether you have the required tools installed, follow the [NHS prototype kit setup guide](https://prototype-kit.service-manual.nhs.uk/install) to install everything you need to run the prototype.

Once setup is complete, return here to download and start using the NHS App prototype.

## Learn to use the prototype

To use the NHS App prototype, basic knowledge of HTML is required, such as understanding tags and attributes, and how to copy and paste code.

If you're new to HTML and CSS, you can get started with online tutorials from [mdn](https://developer.mozilla.org/), [codecademy](https://www.codecademy.com/), or other online tutorials.

The [NHS prototype kit guides](https://prototype-kit.service-manual.nhs.uk/how-tos) provide step-by-step instructions - from creating a simple page to building complex user journeys.

We recommend following the [build a basic prototype tutorial](https://prototype-kit.service-manual.nhs.uk/how-tos/build-basic-prototype/index) to familiarise yourself with prototyping.

## Page templates and components

The NHS App prototype includes pre-installed code specific to the app, such as:

- [page templates and layouts](https://nhs-app-redesign-prototype-96ab88b99fdb.herokuapp.com/pages/)
- [components](https://nhs-app-redesign-prototype-96ab88b99fdb.herokuapp.com/components/)

These are available within your copy of the prototype and can be edited or extended to meet the needs of your project.

## Feedback

We welcome feedback and suggestions to help improve the NHS App prototype.

If you have any ideas, feature requests, or issues to report, please submit them by raising an [issue on GitHub](https://github.com/nhsuk/nhsapp-prototype/issues) or contributing directly via a pull request.

## Support

For troubleshooting or support, you can ask the design Slack community at:

- [#prototype-kit](https://nhsdigitalcorporate.enterprise.slack.com/archives/C042J3MTJG2)
- [#nhsapp-design-system](https://nhsdigitalcorporate.enterprise.slack.com/archives/C06GY1LRP19)
